# Self-Assessment_Bootcamp

# Self-Assessment

As the team leader of my group, I was able to set daily checkups with the team members and follow up with them on the tasks that were assigned to them and ensure everyone were on the same page. I took the role of cleaning the dataset by performing the exploratory data analysis phase of the project in terms of loading the dataset, removing data duplications, handling null values, treating missing values and performing the required merging and joining and finally loading the data that were presented in forms of DataFrames into PostgreSQL relational database system as tables using the psycopg2 adapter for connecting the Python code to the database and using the SQLAlchemy as a SQL toolkit for facilitating the communication between pandas and the database. I did help with designing the machine learning model by choosing the right features and increasing the accuracy of our model by going back to the source data and fixing the missing geographical coordinates of the counties for getting accurate weather data. Finally, I was able to build an interactive dashboard using Tableau to show case our analysis results. We decided to do daily discussions on the parts that we were working on individually and rotate our roles so that everyone could get hands on all the deliverables of the project. Initially, one of the challenges that I faced in this group was lack of communication among all of the four members as some members preferred to do discussions behind the scene and not as a group but I overcame that by ensuring the team members understand that discussions have to be done as a group and that there should be transparency among all the members.

# Team Assessment

As a team, we made sure that we communicate regularly on days and times convenient for all the team members although it was challenging at first as some of the team members were working full-time aside from being a bootcamp student. Moreover, we updated each other with the project progress daily through the slack group chat, the project deliverable review was done bi-weekly through a zoom video call, updating the status of the project was done daily through slack group chat and team meetings where final discussions were delivered was done weekly through a zoom video call.
One of our strength as a team was setting deadlines for each of the tasks we were working on and finishing those tasks on time, by this way we were able to rotate our roles so that we could contribute equally to all the tasks, roles and deliverable requirements.

# Summary of Project

Using historic wildfire data from California Government, analyzing the dataset and building the machine learning Logistic Regression model to predict occurrence of major fire. Prediction of fire activities in the forest guides the authorities to make optimal, efficient, and sound decisions in fire management. The goal is to demonstrate the methodology of building advanced machine learning models using historic wildfire data and hence doesn’t represent the best model performance, rather presents an approach to take a data-driven approach to predict wildfires. Additionally, our model makes predictions for major fires mainly based on the weather data with an accuracy of 71%  and the false negatives for the major fire is very low (5) that gives us a good recall value of 82% for the major fires. This means where actually major fires took place,most of them will be predicted correctly.

